Adding craft doc for RLP (#292)
Kuadrant/kuadrant-operator: doc/craft/ratelimitpolicy.md

# Crafting A RateLimitPolicy
A detail explanation of the fields in the RateLimitPolicy is outlined here.

> For a quick reference refer to [Reference](/kuadrant-operator/doc/reference/ratelimitpolicy/) section.

Reviewer: Link is broken in GitHub.

## apiVersion and kind
The latest version of the RateLimitPolicy is `kuadrant.io/v1beta2`.
With the kind being `RateLimitPolicy`.
```yaml
apiVersion: kuadrant.io/v1beta2
kind: RatelimitPplicy
```

## Metadata

> When creating the RateLimitPolicy the policy must be crated in the same namespace as the resource being targeted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The RateLimitPolicy must be created in the same namespace as the resource being targeted.
```

```yaml
metadata:

>     name: toystore

Reviewer: Any special reason to be using 4-space indentation? I think most (if not all) our examples use 2 spaces.

Author: No special reason, my editor has a default of 4 spaces. I always found it as a good guide to highlight deeply nested code block and the cyclomatic complexity that brings.

    namespace: default
```

> Once created Kuadrant may add and manage additional annotations and labels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once created, Kuadrant may add additional annotations and labels to the policy.
```

For example:
```yaml
metadata:
    annotations:
        kuadrant.io/namespace: default
```

## Spec

### limits

> `spec.limits` is a list of named limits, which describe what limits should be placed on a resource.

Reviewer: What does "resource" mean here?

Many named limits are allowed.
Limit names do require to be valid yaml keys.
```yaml
spec:
    limits:
        limit_1:
            ...
        limit_2:
            ...
```

#### counters

> `counters` defines additional rate limit counters based on context qualifiers and well known selectors.

Reviewer: I wouldn't say the counters are "additional." These are the qualifiers that define _the_ counters that are created for each possible value assumed for the dynamic attributes specified here.

> The full list of well known attributes can be found [here](/architecture/rfcs/0002-well-known-attributes/#request-attributes).

Reviewer: Broken link.

Also, pointing to one group of well-known attributes only (i.e. request attributes.) Attributes from the other groups also apply.

All defined counters are ANDed together.
```yaml
spec: 
    limits:
        limit_1:
            counters:
                - request.url_path
```
The above example creates a new counter for every url_path that is requested.

> A more concrete example of why creating new counters base off the well known attributes may relate to comments on social network.

Reviewer: Sorry. I don't understand this sentence.

                  unit: second
                - duration: 1
                  limit: 1500
                  unit: hour
```
The above example restricts "limit_1" to 5 requests every 10 seconds or 1500 requests every hour.
1500 requests an hour is more restrictive than 5 requests every 10 seconds.

#### routeSelectors
`routeSelectors` defines the semantics for matching an HTTP request based on conditions.
Each `routeSelector` can contain a list of `hostnames` and `matches`.

- `hostnames`: defined limits apply to the hostnames.
Wild card hostnames are allowed, e.g. *.toystore.com, but IP address are not allowed.
- `matches`: refines the `routeSelector` to more targeted requests.
Many matches can be defined.
A `match` is a complex object, see [match](#match) for more detail.

```yaml
spec:
    limits:
        limit_1:
            routeSelectors:
                - hostnames:
                    - 'api.toystore.com'
                    - 'admin.toystore.com'
                    - '*.example.com'
                  matches:
                    - method: GET
                      path:
                        type: PathPrefix
                        value: /
```

> The above example selects an number of hostnames to protect, and the `matches` refines the selection to GET requests on any URI that is prefix with `/`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above example selects a number of hostnames to protect, and the `matches` refines the selection to GET requests on any URI that is prefix with `/`.
```

Also the request must have a header entry of `version:v1` and a queryParam of `search=release`.
All fields are optional, and the above example shows how complex of a match that can be crafted.

#### when
`when` defines semantics for matching an HTTP request based on conditions.
This should be used only when no match for the request can be created using [routeSelectors](#routeSelectors).
Three fields used are: operator, selector, value

- `operator`: binary operator to be applied to the content fetched from the selector.
Possible values are: "eq" (equal to), "neq" (not equal to).
- `selector`: defines one item from the well known attributes.
The full list of well known attributes can be found [here](/architecture/rfcs/0002-well-known-attributes/#request-attributes).
- `value`: reference for the comparison.
```yaml
spec:
    limits:
        limit_1:
            when:
                - operator: "eq"
                  selector: "request.useragent"
                  value: "curl/8.0.1"
```
The above example will match HTTP requests that are sent with the header HTTP_USER_AGENT set with a value of "curl/8.0.1". 

> ### targetRef

Reviewer: Maybe explain this before explaining `routeSelectors`?

Author: I explained the different sections in an alphabetically order as this is how a user would see items listed in a CR.  If this was to be ordered by the perceived importances should `routeSelectors` be listed before `counters`?

`spec.targetRef` tells Kuadrant what resource is being targeted by the RateLimitPolicy.
There are three required fields: `group`, `kind` and `name`.

- `group` will be assigned **gateway.networking.k8s.io**.
- `kind` can have a value of **HTTPRoute** or **Gateway**.
- `name` is the resource that is being targeted.

```yaml
spec:
    targetref:
        group: gateway.networking.k8s.io
        kind: HTTPRoute
        name: toystore
```
The above example targets the HTTPRoute named toystore.

## Reference Example
```yaml
apiVersion: kuadrant.io/v1beta2
kind: RatelimitPplicy
metadata:
    name: toystore
    namespace: default
spec: 
    limits:
        toystore:
            rates:
                - duration: 10
                  limit: 5

>                   unit: secound

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                  unit: second
```
